other-useful-information/whitelabeling.md, before:

---
description: >-
  This page describes how to whitelabel the ad tags and/or the user interfaces
  of admin.adnuntius.com and self-service.
---

# Whitelabeling

Adnuntius allows its customers to whitelabel the ad tags and/or the user interfaces. This has the following benefits:

* Ad requests sent from the same network domain as the page content can help reduce the number of ad impressions lost due to ad blocking software (although it is not always guaranteed to beat all ad-blocking methods).
* The Adnuntus platform will appear to be yours; we provide the technology while you own the appearance and brand of user interfaces.

## Self-Service Portal

The self-service portal allows for you to use your own domain. As part of [the onboarding process](../adnuntius-self-service/getting-started.md), here is how you ensure that users can find your self-service portal under your domain rather than ours. For the purposes of this instruction we will assume that the your domain is `pubdomain.net`, and that you want the self-service portal to be accessible at `selfservice.pubdomain.net`. This **must** be replaced with your actual domain and address when following the instructions.

1. In your DNS, create/add a CNAME for `selfservice.pubdomain.net` and point it to `bookings.adnuntius.com`.
2. Inform us that this is done by sending us a short message at support@adnuntius.com, and we will complete the process on our end.

## Admin Portal

You can whitelabel the admin portal at `admin.adnuntius.com`. For the purposes of this instruction we will assume that the your domain is `pubdomain.net`, and that you want the admin portal to be accessible at `admin.pubdomain.net`. This **must** be replaced with your actual domain and address when following the instructions.

1. In your DNS, create/add a CNAME for `admin.pubdomain.net` and point it to `manager.adnuntius.com`.
2. Inform us that this is done by sending us a short message at support@adnuntius.com, and we will complete the process on our end.

You can also further whitelabel the portal, in which case we would need the following material from you (which can be sent to support@adnuntius.com unless you have a dedicated project manager).

| Material needed and explanations                                                                | Requirements                                                    |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| A background image for the login page.                                                          | Requirements: 1920x1080px, max 500kb.                           |
| A top menu logo. Logged in users will have your logo in the upper left corner.                  | Requirements: 168×32px, max 150kb, transparent background.      |
| A report logo. Whenever someone generates a (scheduled) report, that report can contain a logo. | Requirements: Max 150kb.                                        |
| Favicon (browser tab icon).                                                                     | Requirements: 16x16px, PNG, GIF or JPG, transparent background. |
| Menu color (optional). The top and right side menu backgrounds can have a color of your choice. | Hex color code.                                                 |

## Ad Tags

Ad requests sent from the same network domain as the page content can help reduce the number of ad impressions lost due to ad blocking software (although it is not always guaranteed to beat all ad-blocking methods). For the purposes of this instruction we will assume that the your domain is `pubdomain.net`. This **must** be replaced with your actual domain when following the instructions.

**Step 1.** The [CNAME ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNAME\_record)records in the table below must be configured to point to Adnuntius servers.

| Name                     | Record Type | Value                    |
| ------------------------ | ----------- | ------------------------ |
| `delivery.pubdomain.net` | CNAME       | `delivery.adnuntius.com` |
| `assets.pubdomain.net`   | CNAME       | 1413604634.rsc.cdn77.org |
| `assets2.pubdomain.net`  | CNAME       | 1000476387.rsc.cdn77.org |
| `adn.pubdomain.net`      | CNAME       | 1388220282.rsc.cdn77.org |

**Step 2.** Once you have configued the CNAME records as described above, please inform us at support@adnuntius.com **before** continuing to step 3. It is critical that you do not continue following these instructions until you have been informed that the necessary configuration in Adnuntius has been completed.

**Step 3**. The Adnuntius Ad tags must be modified so that the white-label addresses are used. The table below provides a comparison between a “standard” tag and a modified tag.

Standard tag:

```
<div id="adn-aaabbbccc" style="display:none"></div>
<script src="https://cdn.adnuntius.com/adn.js" async></script>
<script>window.adn = window.adn || {}; adn.calls = adn.calls || []; adn.calls.push(function() { adn.request({ adUnits: [ {auId: '0000000aaabbbccc' } ]}); });</script>
```

Modified tag:

```
<div id="adn-aaabbbccc" style="display:none"></div>
<script src="https://adn.pubdomain.net/adn.js" async></script>
<script>window.adn = window.adn || {}; adn.calls = adn.calls || []; adn.calls.push(function() { adn.request({ dn: 'pubdomain.net', adUnits: [ {auId: '0000000aaabbbccc' } ]}); });</script>
```

Please note: Standard tags will continue to function without modification, they will just not use the configured white-label addresses.

Commit message:

GITBOOK-615: Simplified Admin Portal whitelabel instructions to - email us

other-useful-information/whitelabeling.md, after:

---
description: >-
  This page describes how to whitelabel the ad tags and/or the user interfaces
  of admin.adnuntius.com and self-service.
---

# Whitelabeling

Adnuntius allows its customers to whitelabel the ad tags and/or the user interfaces. This has the following benefits:

* Ad requests sent from the same network domain as the page content can help reduce the number of ad impressions lost due to ad blocking software (although it is not always guaranteed to beat all ad-blocking methods).
* The Adnuntus platform will appear to be yours; we provide the technology while you own the appearance and brand of user interfaces.

## Self-Service Portal

The self-service portal allows for you to use your own domain. As part of [the onboarding process](../adnuntius-self-service/getting-started.md), here is how you ensure that users can find your self-service portal under your domain rather than ours. For the purposes of this instruction we will assume that the your domain is `pubdomain.net`, and that you want the self-service portal to be accessible at `selfservice.pubdomain.net`. This **must** be replaced with your actual domain and address when following the instructions.

1. In your DNS, create/add a CNAME for `selfservice.pubdomain.net` and point it to `bookings.adnuntius.com`.
2. Inform us that this is done by sending us a short message at support@adnuntius.com, and we will complete the process on our end.

## Admin Portal

You can whitelabel the admin portal at `admin.adnuntius.com`. In order to do this, you will need to be able to edit records in your DNS provider. You will need to email support@adnuntius.com the name of the domain you wish to whitelabel, and we will enable this and walk you through the changes you need to make.

You can also further whitelabel the portal, in which case we would need the following material from you (which can be sent to support@adnuntius.com unless you have a dedicated project manager).

| Material needed and explanations                                                                | Requirements                                                    |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| A background image for the login page.                                                          | Requirements: 1920x1080px, max 500kb.                           |
| A top menu logo. Logged in users will have your logo in the upper left corner.                  | Requirements: 168×32px, max 150kb, transparent background.      |
| A report logo. Whenever someone generates a (scheduled) report, that report can contain a logo. | Requirements: Max 150kb.                                        |
| Favicon (browser tab icon).                                                                     | Requirements: 16x16px, PNG, GIF or JPG, transparent background. |
| Menu color (optional). The top and right side menu backgrounds can have a color of your choice. | Hex color code.                                                 |

## Ad Tags

Ad requests sent from the same network domain as the page content can help reduce the number of ad impressions lost due to ad blocking software (although it is not always guaranteed to beat all ad-blocking methods). For the purposes of this instruction we will assume that the your domain is `pubdomain.net`. This **must** be replaced with your actual domain when following the instructions.

**Step 1.** The [CNAME ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNAME\_record)records in the table below must be configured to point to Adnuntius servers.

| Name                     | Record Type | Value                    |
| ------------------------ | ----------- | ------------------------ |
| `delivery.pubdomain.net` | CNAME       | `delivery.adnuntius.com` |
| `assets.pubdomain.net`   | CNAME       | 1413604634.rsc.cdn77.org |
| `assets2.pubdomain.net`  | CNAME       | 1000476387.rsc.cdn77.org |
| `adn.pubdomain.net`      | CNAME       | 1388220282.rsc.cdn77.org |

**Step 2.** Once you have configued the CNAME records as described above, please inform us at support@adnuntius.com **before** continuing to step 3. It is critical that you do not continue following these instructions until you have been informed that the necessary configuration in Adnuntius has been completed.

**Step 3**. The Adnuntius Ad tags must be modified so that the white-label addresses are used. The table below provides a comparison between a “standard” tag and a modified tag.

Standard tag:

```
<div id="adn-aaabbbccc" style="display:none"></div>
<script src="https://cdn.adnuntius.com/adn.js" async></script>
<script>window.adn = window.adn || {}; adn.calls = adn.calls || []; adn.calls.push(function() { adn.request({ adUnits: [ {auId: '0000000aaabbbccc' } ]}); });</script>
```

Modified tag:

```
<div id="adn-aaabbbccc" style="display:none"></div>
<script src="https://adn.pubdomain.net/adn.js" async></script>
<script>window.adn = window.adn || {}; adn.calls = adn.calls || []; adn.calls.push(function() { adn.request({ dn: 'pubdomain.net', adUnits: [ {auId: '0000000aaabbbccc' } ]}); });</script>
```

Please note: Standard tags will continue to function without modification, they will just not use the configured white-label addresses.
